[Music]
we
no
everyone
go
no everyone
everyone
everyone no no no no no
every
[Laughter]
no no
no everyone
I wonder what this is
[Music]
wellow nice
the the D&B Loop is is actually just
it's
just it's just half life
too
hello um it is 2 a.m. but that's
okay it is in
again
um does Anakin even need
autotune what let's find out where was
I what
well that's an E
minor see
[Music]
wait a
minute hold
[Music]
on now wait a second
n
[Music]
what's
our oh I forgot this has L insan that's
what's happening
[Music]
all right I got this
a
[Music]
ah
all right now wait now wait a second
[Music]
ah a
ah
[Music]
oh wait that is like you you do this
with a dub delay or something and this
is like kind of hard so it
[Music]
goes wait do we have a
wait Roger
Roger oh [__] wait wait a wait a second
hold on it's
like you get the sub in here
first and then you get
there Roger Roger
[Music]
all right what else here this is just
from the Lego Star Wars sound effects
files um
[Laughter]
oh you have to know that
sound but where is Yoda
[Applause]
what's the point of even doing this if
there's no Yoda where the [__] is
[Music]
Yoda oh I like that sound
fun sound you can listen to when you're
in
space [__]
GEOS gun whatever it's called us to be
obsessed with those bug
things oh
[__] yeah hold up
[Music]
all right hold up I have an idea new
idea electri swing it I mean we
could but let me let me
[Music]
I think that's in D right that sounds
data me which is two notes
underneath this one so we just Raise
This by two notes then it should just
work here
[Music]
maybe if we change this to complex Pro
and then make it twice as long
[Music]
ah
I'm going to save this and one day I'm
going to stumble upon it and be like
remember the time I did this and it was
why did I do
that
but The Show Must Go On I
suppose um an Anakin screaming type beat
okay and now we
now we're back here actually you know
what I kind of have Star Wars
transitions do you see
this it kind of is like you get like the
the someone does a oneliner and then
like and then like Chewbacca doeses like
the and then it's like you hear
the and it just like does that I don't
know I'm actually might be going insane
so don't listen to me
[Music]
oh okay
okay little brain is is electro swing
but big brain is French house though
[Music]
all right I've been on I've been on the
grind with just making a bunch of stuff
from scratch so I'm going to do the
thing where I don't do that this time
and I actually use sounds I have for
once so you can can see what that kind
of implementation looks like uh I was
looking for something
okay yes
yes we yeah okay I
win so
like I kind of like that
[Music]
and then the
classic
um go into these ones I just want a clap
sound maybe just for that clap there
[Music]
no not that
one wrong clap
[Music]
then easily going and grabbing like a
more traditional
[Music]
I don't know how to tell you this but
the Star Wars cantina song is not
copyright free it's not
royaltyfree but that's you know it's fun
we're we're doing it for fun so you know
[Music]
I just feel like that pre- shifted
like clicky
I don't like this clap anymore
restart maybe we just have to go with
the classics maybe we just have to go
with the club
Classics go and go here and here and
here and here and here
[Music]
I mean I could use some claps that I
made before and use them for pre-
shifting because I'm good at making
this so these are ones I've made
just use that for the pre-
[Music]
shiing I don't know why I just don't
like
this I'm getting really I'm getting
really pedantic about this Star Wars
cantina song
[Music]
oh there we go lots of pre sh I like see
these are claps I made
[Music]
I get so obsessed with the sound but it
also doesn't work
here I need to lay
off need to be
reasonable need to say no more
[Music]
fine just just
that why do I make a clap really short
and then put another clap after so there
is this idea of
um um right now in this case I'm I've
just decided last minute I'm just going
to put the clap on the beat but there's
this idea where if you're making music
digitally like this and you don't you're
not like recording clap sounds yourself
um then to make the psycho Acoustics
more like interesting to the ear is
usually when I have something that comes
just before the kick and clap come in
that create like this little like Slappy
sound it's not really sounding good to
me here but it's a it's an effect that's
like really great in a lot of other um
mus a lot of other songs um the whole
this this whole deal you're going to
hear a lot of this in the girl who
Wizards album because it's just like
it's my [__] the pre- shifted clap
situation um in this case I actually
don't like how it sounds I think it's
creating too much upward movement into
to the clap it's just kind of having a a
clap that just slaps on it no big deal
it kind of works here better it's kind
of jacking instead of
slapping which are actual musical terms
so don't decontextualize
[Music]
those and then what you do is you do a
shuffled high hat pattern
where um you have a cler high hat and an
open high
hat I kind of like that
[Music]
one and this high hat might sound really
annoying right now
[Music]
but that's cuz we haven't added the Open
high
hat so if you add the Open high hat in
between these now it sounds like
[Music]
this so it's interesting is that if you
mute this open high hat suddenly this
high hat pattern falls apart
again even though these high hats are on
time they're swung it still doesn't
really sound great because you don't
have something to contextualize the the
high hat so you add that high hat in the
middle and suddenly
[Music]
it's damn that's kind of it's kind of
cool and swingy and normally I'd process
these more and fix them up more but I'm
really lazy right now and I'm don't want
to spend too much time on Star Wars
cantina song
so here's another thing is right now
this the open a high hat kind of rings
out like a bit
long and you're going change the groove
a little bit you can do is just shorten
it not a lot but so that it kind of has
this hard
fall versus
one's more one's more
Airy and one's more tight so depending
on the feel you want both are completely
valid options in this case I I'm a huge
fan of cutting Tails early
[Music]
so that's a big pet peeve of mine is I
usually do not like sounds that ring out
too long unless they're like a pad or
lead or something I mean you notice this
clap originally sounded like this but
I've shorten it to sound like this cuz I
just like things that sound small like
that there's kind of this profound
psycho effect psychoacoustic effect that
happens when you have this like really
big sound and this really big kick drum
but then you have this tiny little clap
and it's like the clap is Tiny and yet
when you put it in context with it it
kind of feels strong the reason why is
cuz it's like everything else kind of es
and flows with that clap regardless of
what the clap is doing and so having
that small clap is kind of interesting
[Music]
actually so here's the thing obviously
we know how the Baseline and general
progression of the Cantina Theme Goes
but I've cut the base here so here's all
the stuff I'm
[Music]
removing I'm taking out all those
frequencies so now we just have the high
end and the advantage that gives us is
it means we can add a new Baseline that
completely disregards the original
Baseline as long as it harmonizes with
the the main meling that's called
reharmonization um I like to use silent
for warm fuzzy bases let's make it from
scratch cuz why
not there there's probably a preset in
here that would do what I want
but can't think of it right now
so have a big saw and then a small
saw so that way we get some width but
it's also focused with this one voice
here put the filter on key tracking all
the way up warm Drive resonance up there
and drive
here we get this funny
sound and when we get to the low end
here's my favorite is so when you go low
on this
thing oh yeah
you put some extra distortion on here
too and then you just get this
so another thing that's important to
note when you're working with
synthesizers is you see how right now
with my mouse I'm moving this one
knob but then you realize that um
Automation and modulation can help move
that knob without you touching your your
mouse so I go over this every time but I
know people learn learn every time I do
this so um we're going to do is we take
this shape here that's going to just go
ramping down and we take that shape and
apply it to the filter
knob and get this so imagine like a a
hand just turning that knob according to
the
shape and now you get to move that um
filter cut off
[Music]
dynamically you can make it be short or
really long
so there are different ways we could
have a baseline here and this we're in
we're in D cuz yes we're in D
so so there are different kind of bases
you could you could put underneath this
so we could have this kind of Plucky
[Music]
one or you can have like a fuzzy
sustained one that sounds more like this
[Music]
or it could have like a wampy one which
will you take the filter back
down you want if you want it to wump
then you give it the attack
instead so now it's
[Music]
oneing SS even crazier is if you change
the saw wave to a square wave and then
it changes the sound entirely from this
to
this now it's kind of more odd it's got
some weird harmonics in there now that
the saw wave didn't
have and then if you pull back that
attack again and make it
pluckier well now if you're using a
square wave then what we we tend to call
it a dunk you call it a donk it's like
the um kind of the basis for Russian
hard Bas music the the classic donk in a
Russian hard based music they do it
through FM rather than using a square
wave but you get a very similar sound
regardless so we have a donk now and we
can we can donk in
the Donk in the song
[Music]
or we could pull back to take this
Square wave away and just have this saw
wave have no
automation on the filter and then you
just have this kind of
grow um kind of
Rich almost like real base guitar kind
of sound
oh I hate to break it to you guys but
[Music]
any I'm sorry if something it's in D
Minor so so is Megalania so I don't even
have to transpose it to a different key
to to play so that's great anyway so
this is more if you if you pull back the
the big voices one then you can get just
kind of this rubbery real bass guitar
sounding ass thing
um what else I mean there's so many
kinds of bases you can make in fact what
if we change the saw wave to a sine
wave but now I got that really really
really low one not a lot of high-end
information on it it's kind of tub it's
like you have P PVC piping and you have
this pulse that's coming through it
that's what a sine wave feels like when
it's in a in a in a Basse setting very
low so there's not going to be a ton of
like highend and mid stuff but when you
when you can feel it
[Music]
oh yes and then there is the reace which
can be accomplished in a couple of
different ways um I don't find silence
to be particularly good at Reese bases
but we can do a quick
Reese um one of the ways I tend to do it
is I tend to start with a sine
wave but then I will throw it into a
filter that can be
distorted and then add in the same
filter some detuned saw
pause bring that
down then what we go over the compressor
and
Distortion hello oh
if you want to get especially technical
you could then throw in and or we could
use the filter and use a
notch is this a notch this one's a
notch oh maybe not 16 voices maybe more
like
three throw an LFO on here actually fun
fact with uh vital
you can
add this random modulator here and then
split the stereo so it does different
random amounts on the left and right
channel which kind of makes this Reise a
little bit
trippy let's add a sine wave that's
outside of all the effects not going
through any effects
this is one kind of re space this is a
more Nur re space than
anything um
then before we do anything else you want
to throw on
that base mono here then we can go in
and do some Ott
stuff car about a second filter
[Music]
that's more tuie you can also put in
White
Noise makes it more purr a little bit
more this the case where something like
I don't know Saturn Maybe
change this to
tube this one should stay
tape
so I'm mainly just doing this cuz
someone in chat mentioned arace this
probably wouldn't sound good at all with
this kind of song
[Music]
but you know what it would do well let's
let's let's do a little experiment
here change this to a fast
tempo see then
now now we've changed priorities
here hi you know
[Music]
so now we're entering German base neuro
territory and so that base from
earlier right maybe that base doesn't
work with like house music but the
moment you put it in uh a 170 plus beat
then you get
that's really cool about when you create
like a really specific re space is you
can hold a note and it will just keep
making this evolving feeling like I hold
this note and it just sounds like it's
moving around like it's a
creature and sometimes it gets into that
almost like um subharmonic stuff and it
does this like kind of tubby like
fluttery grass I love that I love that
so much one of my biggest Inspirations
in the electronic music world has always
been
NOA huge NOA fan um I actually
prefer their old old old old old stuff
like 2000s literally 2000s NOA and then
NOA post
2016 when they got really into like
proper neuro instead of like dance for
drumond based stuff I I've love neurom
music it's one of my favorite things I
try so hard to infuse my music with like
neuro based stuff even when there's no
reason to because it's just
fun um yeah neurohop being at 98 beats
per minute um there is like kind of fake
narrow hop on girls for wizards and
potion seller so you you'll hear that
it's not proper narrow hop but there's
there's like this implication this like
kind of emotive feeling that there's
neurohop somewhere in there so anyway
that's what that's this is the advantage
of a Reas base is it's not great for
rhythmic stuff but it's great for being
a Basse padding beneath a faster drum
beat
just getting started with music
production what plugins would you
recommend the ones that come with your
doll most
likely um a lot of Daws just have great
stock stuff already to go for you learn
those first
before get very intimately familiar with
your stock plugins before you buy
external plugins first that's the
important thing because with your stock
plugins you'll start to realize what
your limitations are then you can search
for what plugins are going to help you
with that limitation for
example you should if you're using able
10 which I'm I don't know if you are or
not but for someone who's using able 10
you'll notice
that well I mean this is how an EQ Works
in able 10 the eq8 and it's fine it does
exactly what it's saying but the shapes
that this EQ makes are kind of annoying
you'll notice when I move
the bell curves around and like
especially when you make a high shelf
and start bringing towards the high end
everything gets kind of narrow and kind
of upsetting so you can get a really
kind of unnatural sound when that starts
to happen and let's say you're very
experienced using the eq8 en able 10
you're like huh I wonder if there's an
EQ that doesn't do this weird shape
business well that's when you can
upgrade to something like Pro Q3 which
you'll notice once we have this bell
curve here it's not move it's not not
cramping at all no matter where we move
it it's going to be very transparent and
natural sounding EQ curve whereas the
ablon one you it's it just keeps
changing a lot and it's not exactly
ideal especially when you get towards
the high end and there's a reason for
that there's a
particular physics limitation with
certain kinds of eqs that Fab filter
just already Fab filter can can overcome
ENT
EV so when you start to notice
limitations in your stock plugins that's
when you start to think about external
plugins so that's what I would say is is
get familiar with your stock stuff
first G hoodie is just an merch I mean I
didn't invent scene I didn't even
invent the act of wearing a gir hoodie
as a part of scene that's like an old
thing so is it really Violet Pony antiny
merch or is it just you being in
participating in the scene culture from
before my
time yes frity parametric eq2 actually
in F Studio 2024 the new release that
just came
out um they actually have a mode now
where doesn't cramp towards night quest
frequency because FL Studio is just like
still goated
so I don't use f Studio as my primary
doll at all but eil studio is a really
great
program um the problem is is that you've
learned FL Studio it's harder to learn
any other dos because FL Studio is the
weirdest one it doesn't work the same as
every other Daw does if you learn like
reason or Ableton or logic or bitwig
they're all similar enough that the
knowledge transfers over between them
whereas
with with E Studio its workflow is just
a little bit weird to the point where
not all the skills are transferable but
if you're if you're um able to deal with
that E Studio is a really great
program um free updates for life which
is crazy cuz every time Ableton has an
update I have to pay $0000 so that's
awesome E Studio I paid $400 to own the
entire thing like half a decade ago and
I haven't had to pay a single dollar
since to have the newest
version so let that sink
in um like I I love Ableton and I think
it's the most capable doll for my
purposes but
Ableton isn't the best like Customer
Service Company it's not really for the
people it's very capable but it's not
really for the people EV studio is for
the people EV studio is for the culture
and also this is a small detail but I
think it it implies a lot about the
company's
standards Ableton whenever they release
a demo for like a new product or an
update for Ableton the music that they
have in the demos are just like not
really music most people listen to It's
like
not it's not bad I don't dislike it but
I don't feel like it is like
something that most people are going to
immediately connect with whereas with FL
Studio every time they have a product
demo it's always music that sounds like
the kind of stuff people want to be
making with FL Studio which is like
awesome
cuz you immediately connect with that
versus
Ableton um and it's a small detail but
in the long run I feel like it implies a
lot of things about the company
standards
so um oh and udio just fixed a bunch of
my problems with it in the newest update
so I'm thinking about trying out some
more E Studio in fact um for Paradise
Valley the paradise Valley mixtape I
actually used fil studio for some of
that album not to create a whole song or
complete anything but there were just
some things in E Studio that just felt
better to use there so I reached for E
Studio for some of Paradise Valley and
then I brought it over into Ableton
later
but but
yeah anyway that's the whole thing about
plugins let's
let's
Retreat from this German base
ever so
quickly Actually I don't even have to do
that I could just do
[Music]
this if you were to learn from scratch
definitely Ableton cuz Ableton you're
going to pick up a lot of skills that
will be transferable to every other doll
out there
so then if you pick up E Studio and you
end up liking it more then I think
you're set because you know things from
Ableton would transfer to other things
and you know E Studio and you know your
preferences so at that point you should
just stick with E Studio if you prefer
it in life there is no bad doll there's
no bad music software except
for um for Pro Tools
um there's no bad dog except for
Protools that's what I'll say you like
reason you like bitwig you like E Studio
cuase logic
Ableton all valid choices the only
invalid choice is is Pro
Tools
um which is tough
because if you want to get like an
engineering job in music and audio
then
unfortunately you have to learn how to
use Pro Tools because the industry is
controlled by like 55-year-old white men
who have only used the same program
since forever and have pushed it into
every into every school and classroom
and Engineering World place every Studio
around the
world um Protools is the archaic
equivalent of Photoshop except even
Photoshop is slightly more
usable than than Pro Tools if those
things transfer if you understand what I
mean
um yeah Pro prot Tools and Avid they're
they're like Photoshop and
Adobe same kind of business practices
same janky software I use Affinity serif
products and I prefer them over Adobe
products very very much and they're far
cheaper it's like they're not cheaper
because they're worse than Photoshop
it's just they're priced correctly
that's all
um yeah but Protools is super archaic um
it costs you a fortune to even use
it what what's the stock FL
scream what's this what's the stock fo
scream I'm scared what does that mean
oh I I don't know if I want to
know well I do have good news
um let me see if I can find the
thing or I wonder if oh I'm going to
open f and see if I've have it installed
I don't remember if I if I've have it
installed I don't remember if I if
I've how do I
get
pry
wait oh
yes oh awesome yes okay here we go so
here's my
studio and very importantly I think it
was an artist associate with CA Gunner
made this for E
Studio and she does this when you press
play which is awesome you
can it's great it's
incredible this this is this is one of
the RAC where FL wins over
Ableton because the Ableton developers
don't understand what fun is FL Studio
understands what fun
is but yeah um she does not dance to the
Rhythm but she dances and that's all
that
matters um oh
yeah I have my my fudio set to gloss
because that's the superior
way F scream is when Michaela opens e
stud for the first time it implodes
screaming does anyone know if it's
pronounced Michael Gira or Michael girro
I don't actually know I don't think I've
ever heard him say his
name I don't know if he
cares data patches packs Legacy vocals
I think I could
search
oh
um there's just a lot of things in there
um it it is Michael Gea okay good fls
scream1 I'm really scared
[Applause]
okay that's
good all right um
why you know
what Noel this is what you're dancing to
today
it actually is insan that's actually
really upsetting
wait I wonder if it is tempo sync hold
on what if I change the tempo oh
oh okay so you weren't hallucinating it
was in sync I did not realize it sped up
and slowed down based on tempo of course
it would because it can read the tempo
information it's inside of E Studio I'm
just
silly I was like when you when you said
that like oh she's dancing to it I'm
like no that's probably just your mind
playing tricks on you we have like
selective like
selective biases towards like the
dancing GIF characters so you're
probably just like approximating it but
then I looked at it and I saw it cycle
one two three four times it's like okay
no it's actually it's actually in sync
which is awesome so FL Studio I
apologize for saying it didn't syn to
the tempo because it
does um that's even
cooler um shout out FL Studio
so
yeah
anyway no no no
everyone wait Noel was still
there um one
second no Noel Noel wanted to was I quit
E Studio but she's entered my system
know it would seem which is very
exciting that was really
scary okay um very good very good very
good so I don't think the sine wave
works for this I think having the
[Music]
you're the first person in history to be
able to use silence without shitty
Reddit patches how does that feel wait
what do you
mean with silence I've only ever
done Patches from scratch or just used
the first four pages of
presets I think there were only like two
or three times in history I've reached
for even a different
bank notorious pret junkie plugin
I mean I get it silence kind of
incredible but I I I've been doing sound
design from scratch with silent for 10
years or 12 whoops sorry 12 years oh
that hurts to
say I've been doing sound design and
scratch sound design from scratch in
silence for 12 years so I'm just used to
it um I the controls are so familiar to
me and it has the best goddamn low pass
filter in the world if I could take
silence low pass
filter and put it on everything else
then like the world would be a better
place the the fact that silence filter
is so good makes it impossible for me to
like use a different synth sometimes
um yeah serum's filters are really
bad I mean they're they're they're like
linear filters like just the low Pass
High Pass Etc their weird filters are
pretty cool but
like if serum had a rich low pass filter
I might consider using silence
less but I've been using silent for 12
years and I haven't
stopped um I originally had a pirated
version and
then I eventually paid for it and said
this is a legal copy
everyone but I didn't start with a legal
copy but shout out to Leonard digital
for making one of the best synthesizers
of all
time for me personally I have very
little interest in using analog
synthesizers because silence just
sounds as good as a real analog
synthesizer it's just that godamn
good it's not super complex right but
everything it does it does to Perfection
it's
wonderful I didn't realize you import
filters since the serum but that's an
interesting concept I don't understand
how it would be able to reproduce the
nonlinearities of it
though yeah it used to say license to
team air or something I don't remember
which one it
was it was one of the three big dogs of
like the
2010s I know you can take
omnisphere sound sources
[Music]
but oh I was like why did suddenly
everything get scooped when I put this
into the side chain group and I forgot I
put both this and this eq8 curve as a
demonstration of Nyquist cramping and I
didn't take it off I was like why the
[__] did it sound so like hissy at me
why was it hissing at
me that's cuz I cuz I left this in this
really funny
[Music]
grab a cashmere cinematic drum Loop and
slap it on don't correct the
BPM you're this is going to be less
working on music and just [__] posting
all day but like I get it I get
it um okay yeah let's do it
it's got to be the Cinematic ones those
are one
shots it's in here yeah here we
go I see I see 128 beats per minute ones
here but we have to do 100 beats perm
for for fun and we uncorrect the tempo
so here we go we've made the song much
better
[Music]
now actually funny is like this is
almost a tri pattern here if you just do
[Music]
this but unfortunately that's not the
reality of the
[Music]
situation wait but then but then we got
to get one of the brumms is that in
volume
one oh I don't know how to read
these is
it
this there we
go now I can make a hybrid trap song
but wait there's
more I need everyone in chat to know
that I have the hit
kit I have the hit kit you know what
that
means cut it break Pump It
mix wrong one
this
is
Magic the re remix re re
remix where is it where to
go remix
REM remix remix pump it
up or is the one where they're
counting one
wait here we go we got it we got it one
3 5 one 2
3 oh my God okay wait yeah I skipped the
four by the way um also uh just a fun
thing here where is
the
this so some of these uh underscores
used in a wall socket so there's that
sound and these are some of the ones
that she chopped
for shoot to kill
so just some
fun just just some fun
lore um but what was I looking for okay
we're looking for a couple things here I
want to stay in the vocals for here and
we were
also looking for we're looking for the
nuke I swear I had the DJ Smokey kit oh
there it
is
[Music]
um was the tag in here I don't think the
tag was in here actually
War crime
Riser I don't think the tag was in here
was or no sorry it was in here I got it
no don't worry I'm un
intelligent legal nuclear there we go
one 2 one
three 5
one three 5
[Music]
one yeah don't yeah I can add the I from
the Jane kit don't worry I got
it is what are you referring
to is is it
which one is
it sorry I just got really adct addicted
to that
sound is it is it a
vocal vocal
sound so it's
oh there found it thank
you okay but now we can perform the good
stuff
remix remix you ready for this we go to
the hit Kat
again
and hit cat hit
cat what was it called
where are
they oh there it is these
ones that's that that one this is one of
my favorite samples of all time it's
just
these ones these are the the famous
for can we turn these down
please
one
one 2
three one 2 three
one
one one
[Applause]
one one two three 5
one three 5 one 2
one three
5 one two
three one two
three 5
1 5
1 5 1 2
3 5 1 2
3 1 2 3
one 2
3 5 1 2 3 5 1 2 3 5 1 2
3 but what if I told you we can make
this
beautiful one
five sorry I turned off the loop but I
wasn't expecting it to to keep going cuz
I forgot that there was more content
after that so just the just the
five and just the drum roll is so funny
it's just like
five it's like so dramatic okay let's
delete
everything and we're left with
this what have I told you there's a
better way
[Music]
we
for
[Music]
let's change the care
um
[Music]
for
go ahead
and freeze and flatten that
[Music]
m
is
[Music]
oh
[Applause]
[Music]
for
[Applause]
[Music]
n
[Applause]
[Music]
for
[Applause]
[Music]
do the high hat trick well that just
turns this into a
UK um like two-step dubstep song
actually which we can do
[Music]
[Applause]
is that called freak rim
it needs like a shaker like
um what do I
have
oh I have the Tylenol
[Music]
now I want to tighten this up and
something I could do is like chop This
and like do this whole situation but why
would I do that when I can just use
everyone's
favorite uh shaver
box where we can just do this instead
we can even add swing this
way and maybe give that glue compressor
just to get squashed with the
transients I'm not kidding a lot of the
times it's just like like okay I need a
drum sample I don't feel like looking
for one what's in my room right now
it'll just happen that way
[Applause]
do I want to make this even like more
like
this just there's that one harmonic
that's
like there it is you hear
it there we
go I have another idea as well if we
took this entire song
so we're allowed to just
make the sound using the song as
the as the Sound
Source what makes this so fun is we can
throw this into sketch cassette and do
one of
these and maybe add some
how much disperser it's actually just a
bunch of e3s as you can see down
here now we can resample it
again and now we can bring bring this
into
here and turn it into these percussion
sounds
the way you get that sound is using the
pitch envelope if I turn the pitch
envelope off it just sounds like
this but if you make a really steep
pinch envelope with a short Decay you
get the
sound you could technically also make a
clap with these sounds as well if we put
like a redex
you take this right and then you add
like a really harsh compressor
OT this is just a
clap so there's
that okay let's add a little pattern
here
here we use the random panning thing
here we could just ping ponging around
the left and right
channel get that effect
oh you have to remember that I've been
making music for for almost 18
years so I'm kind of just used
to I'm kind of just used to getting in
there and just like doing
things I wrote my first song when I was
seven I Ed Garage Band and an M1
keyboard and then I just kept doing it
the reason why I site 12 years is when
it really mattered is cuz that's when I
started doing electronic music
specifically before then I was trying to
do mostly rock music
but then um I gotten dis Skrillex and
then that changed
everything skrc ruin my life thank you
skx in a good way thank you
skx I mean we just made this
Loop see this is this is how you make
percussion Loops right
is I just made this with a tyol bottle
and the song itself and we made this
Loop here
here and then you could just like I
would just put that in a sample pack and
you can then you can use it actually you
know what I'm going to do I'm actually
going to export
this I'll show you my process for that
so here's where I keep all the sounds
that I've
made here's the drum loops and then this
is technically a Topper I think no this
is a percussion
so 13 and it's 145 beats per minutes
and give it a
name and now I have a loop that I've
made which is over here
I don't do a lot of percussion Loops I
do mostly everything in these
folders oh wait is this the
no this sound so this is a sound I made
in um I don't remember what the sound
Source was it was I think oh I made this
using just a sine wave as the Sound
Source um and I used a bunch of
instances
of filter verse by polyverse this plugin
here bunch of resonant comb filter
things I'm quantizing the pitch of those
and I made this sound
[Music]
and I use this as the basis for the
second to last song on a girl SAR
Wizards so I listen out for
that process behind making an album do
you make a lot of random demos and other
best ones or do you make songs more
purposefully any tips um it's every
every scenario you can think of I
probably do it depends on the project so
for girls who are Wizards I had a loose
idea for the story in my head I'm going
to turn turn up my fan sorry everyone
it's just hot in here
um for girls who are Wizard and
specifically I had like a loose idea for
a story and a loose idea for like kind
of a journey that they go through and so
I mostly started with song titles first
because I I was like conceptualizing it
was very it was very important to have
an order of things and so basically I
wrote a bunch of song titles down and
then
yeah I sent Eden the titles first and
then I slowly started making a bunch of
different demos and then every time a
demo sounded like it fit one of the song
titles I was like okay that's the one
I'll save it for later and in this case
what I did for the album was once I had
a demo for every single song title I
went through and finished every single
song one at a
time um which is not the process for
every album I do but that's the process
for girls who are Wizards
um for more
like for something like um like h word
or Mystic Acoustics like really really
really lore heavy stuff um usually
that's the most involved process where I
have a like a huge list of song titles
I'm not going to use all of them but I
have a bunch of them that I'm ready to
have things that are all related to the
story and
then I do a lot of experimentation with
the demos I do a lot of experimentation
with sound design especially sound
design is super important for stuff like
Mystic Acoustics and hom word and the
Starship Ponyville stuff and so those
ones it's not a very clear-cut process
I'm usually doing bits and pieces of
everything I'm writing titles I'm
writing lyrics and I'm writing feelings
and ideas I'm writing down story bits um
I'm making I'm doing a lot and a lot and
a lot of sound design just hours and
hours and hours of sound design and I'm
even like playing piano and being like
Oh that's a cool chord progression I'm
just going to save the midi of that
chord progression I just played for
later so for the bigger
albums I'm usually doing bits and pieces
of everything and then things start to
hit my mind I'm like okay that chord
progression and those lyrics they wrote
that fits for this moment in this story
and I think I can put this together and
that's going to be this song um that's a
lot more how Carousel was
written um and like the fairy tale
method when I made fairy tales the album
this is this is the one that hurts the
most I actually wrote a 100 songs for
fairy tales and then just narrowed it
down to the 40 that sounded like they
belonged the best in the album and the
story so that one I didn't really plan
ahead anything I knew what the story was
and I kind of knew the the basic idea
but for fairy tales I basically just
wrote a 100 songs and then just picked
the 40 and went with those ones
um so fairy tales broke me
also 100 songs in a year's time cuz
fairy tales took me only a year to
make so was it a year yeah well uh okay
it was a year and some change cuz I made
some demos before that year period that
I carried over into that but like fairy
tales was mostly all those hundred songs
were made in a
year um and part of the reason why I was
able to have such a big output is cuz
that's when I got kicked out so that's
all I could do is make music I had
nothing else to do I was like in the
middle of a place I've never been before
away from home I didn't have any like
one to talk to except for my current
roommate so it was just us stuck in a
room
um and uh I basically just like the
whole time is just new song every single
day just every day I don't care what
what's going on and what's funny is
there are other song a lot of fairy tale
songs actually ended up being songs for
other things so for
example um the original demo for Cutie
Marks the title track was
actually a demo that I made for fairy
tales it was just the first few seconds
I'm sure I have it
somewhere
um here we go
um I've also put this in the uh the
Cutie Marks vinyl bonus stuff for people
who pledged the certain amount but you
can see the the date November 20th 2019
this was originally in the fairy tale
sessions but if I play it you'll
recognize this as
[Music]
and it's what's funny is that period in
November where we we were at an Airbnb
because we had nowhere to live um I was
just writing music and I got extremely
sick and so a bunch of the songs for
fairy tales and K marks were demos I
made when I was
like 101 degree fever and like almost
passing out every single
moment
um when you hit an eight bar Loop okay
when you hit an eight bar Loop listen to
other songs that people have made and
then think about that structure and be
like how can I expand
this how can I leverage this loop I have
can I take parts of it and remove it and
put it in a new section can I add things
elsewhere absolutely just listen to
other people's
music um and there's a thing that people
do I don't really do this as much
anymore I probably should because it
would help me get out my comfort zone
more but there's this thing that people
do is where they'll take a like an
entire song that's already been made and
they'll bring it into their project and
then they'll chop up the sections and
they'll mute the song the song is not
the important part but they look at the
sections that have been imported into
their song and like how do I now create
these sections of songs
um I haven't really done that since like
but I probably should do it again
because there's like I don't really
think about structure very much when I'm
writing my songs so that would get me to
think about structure a little bit more
again you'll you'll notice that um songs
in specifically 2018 that I wrote were
extremely like abacab pop stuff that's
because I was doing that I was
referencing other songs that focus more
structure and now I don't really focus
on the structure as much
anymore but um that's something that you
can do when you have an eight bar Loop
is be like okay I'm just go throw
another song in here how can I how can I
expand this you know remove things
remove removing things is a big thing
like for example we have this
right here's an eight bar Loop we have
you want to make an intro duplicate this
and then start removing [__] take the
drums away
we don't need this
here we don't need the
base don't need
[Music]
that and so now oh you know what in fact
let's do this again same
exercise except this
time so we have this progression here
um we can fade this in and now now look
we have two more sections we just
fade I I didn't take off the loot
that is an easy way to just start
expanding your
song and what's great is you can do this
and you could be super lazy about it
because you're just in the sketching
process and once you have like a full
structure then you can go through and
actually like refine things to be more
interesting and not as lazy you can
create you can add more instruments you
can put put new ideas in there but as
long as you have something to work with
to begin with that helps a lot more than
if you're just working off on an ENT
canvas I can't speak sometimes as
opposed to working off of an empty
canvas
um I mean if we go back to this demo
we know this
part and we know this
part and so what I did what I was I
stripped back everything I took away
everything except for the drums and the
base but then I introduced these little
glitchy Elements which wouldn't take too
much lead precedence but they would give
some more Intrigue and once I had that
section laid out then I started adding
the vocals and it creat a perfect
bedding for that and it's a great e and
flow um what else oh
oh let's see let's
see
um oh what was it
called what this oh well here's the demo
for never looking back which I started
in May of 2019
[Music]
go see what the rest of these
are oh I never released this I never
finished
this but where's the one not that
one not that one so you might recognize
this demo from August 17
2019 so originally a bit of a monster
was actually a fairy tales demo I only
that all everything you just heard is
all I had though and I didn't I didn't
finish it for the album and then I was
showing Necco Snicker some demos I had
and we decided let's just finish that
one for their Commission because it
works really well with the whole synth
pop element they wanted from it to begin
with
so
um but yeah it's a bit of a monster is
originally a fairy tales
demo um
um I'm trying to
think oh my God my my naming conventions
for things need to improve for
demos or they did improve but
they have not always been that
great um from the same pool of demos as
the original bit of a monster one we
have this one
I think that was like the original idea
for for um never looking back and I just
didn't go with
it it's very hard to find things in this
era of things cuz I just name things
terribly oh those are files from 2009 I
scrolled too
far there we
go okay there's the street rout
one originally
id20 oh we know this
one okay very
good I know this
[Music]
one what is this oh yeah let's just mark
up
Harmony oh okay here's the one I was
looking for I should have remembered
id40 is a number I
remember
so let me see if I name things correctly
so I could show this to
you um okay so on January 30th 2020 I
made this demo
[Music]
so this was originally for fairy tales
as
well um but there's thing very
particular about it because it actually
got another
demo and that next demo sounded like
this why are you so retive the way that
I am I can do this by
[Music]
myself I think we know where this is
going and so that fairy tales demo
became I don't need to be fixed but
you'll notice there's that intro part
which doesn't even exists in the the
current
version it it was still hanging on on
here it was still hanging on here in the
V2 version and then in the V3 version
it's gone it's
gone but you can hear the same chord
progression is there it's just it's a
new
instrumentation
right what so that does not sound
anything like this original
demo
[Music]
right eventually became of
course so it's an example of of like how
much the fairy tale stuff was just like
gouged out to use for other things in
many other cases cuz these are not the
only examples either like I've just made
a lot I made a lot of music for fairy
tales and some of I just liked so much I
didn't want to get rid of
it um I have had a fear of touching
Demos in
fact I've been talking about this a lot
and I'm making a big deal about it cuz
it is a big deal to me maybe it'll get
annoying that I keep talking about it
but I'm like kind of actually emotional
about it so in the album I'm releasing
in a week by the way guys seven days the
album I'm releasing in a week girls who
our
Wizards um one of the big aspects about
girls who Wizards is exploring
Nostalgia
and like
considering when I was younger I wanted
to make a lot of EDM
music in a specific way and I was never
good at it and when I was finally like
at a level with music where I could have
done it I got into this mindset that I
wasn't allowed to and what I mean by
that is like think about stuff like Zeds
like cheesy pop music and Martin
Garrick's big room house stuff and
Skrillex's like scary monsters era music
I wanted to make stuff like that but by
the time I was at the skill level to do
stuff like that um the industry had
moved very very very far away from those
sounds and it was almost sort of like
looked down upon to make music that was
that like cheesy and that like dance
oriented and there was this period of
time where people are like oh you have
to make like edgy super serious like
Basse music that's like really prolific
and like full of really complicated
sound design right and I bought into
that cuz I wanted to fit in and I didn't
I I had been like talked
down uh people used to talk down to me
so much when I was just starting out
music which is one of the reasons I
don't want to be like that
because anyone can make music and the
last thing you need is someone in your
ear being like um you're not doing this
right I don't like this or or like
completely hindering your creative
process once you get to a certain point
you know what you want right but I
bought into that I bought into the hype
of like or you have to make super
serious like prolific EDM music with
complicated sound design has to be dark
and EDG and like take itself really
seriously and so I was doing that for a
while if you listen to my music between
2016 and 2018 anything that hits the
electronic department in those years is
really poser music I'm not going to lie
a lot of people like that music and
that's like fine I'm I'm okay if they
like that stuff that I did but to me
that's like poser music cuz I wasn't
myself it wasn't being myself I was
doing something to like fit in with
everyone else um
but what that meant was I got at that
skill level that I think was acceptable
and when I was there I didn't have the
drive to make this music I had always
wanted to
make um what I ended up doing was the
music I was making before electronic
music I wanted to make progressive rock
music so instead of focusing on making
cheesy EDM I started getting into edgy
dark EDM with complicated sound design
that takes itself too seriously and
progressive rock music because I'd
always wanted to do progressive rock
music
um and now I put out progressive rock
tracks right um even you know fantana
did the whole looking at um I still got
something to teach you which is a
progressive rock song and that was a
huge achievement for me it's like I've
finally done what I wanted to do as like
a 10-year-old but now how about the
stuff I wanted to do when I was 13
14 and that's what girls who are Wizards
is it
completely abandons the edgy dark EDM
take yourself serious seriously mindset
and it's like just fully playful and
it's like Whimsical and it's
exciting and it's cheesy and it's like
so proud of Being Cheesy it's like it's
it's it's good it's cheese pizza and I
love cheese
pizza
um I don't know where I was going with
this oh yes so all that said there is a
demo I made in 2015 it's called in the
of friendship that was the original
title back
then
um I made it at the beginning of 2015 so
I would have been 16 years
old um it was like a 60 plus second
demo um it's like a 60 plus second
demo and I then I forgot about it I
exported it and then I basically just
forgot about it um and then over the
next n years essentially I would just go
revisit the demo I exported on on the
desktop I just like just pull it up and
listen to like oh that was cool and as I
got older and older and older I'm like
oh damn I wish I could make music this
playful again cuz it's so cute it's so
bubbly like I want to be there I want to
be there so bad and now all these years
later I've I'm starting to relearn how
to access that part of my creative like
side that sort of playful cheesy part
and while I've been working on this
album I remembered that demo and I'm
like I think it's time to touch it one
last
time
and I think this is the it's the most
terrified have ever been to add on to a
demo because now I made that song
originally when I was 16 I am 25 now and
I'm looking at this song I made when I
was 16 years old
and I'm like I feel like this is a relic
something holy and something sacred and
if I do anything to it then I'll will
ruin everything that it stood for so
it's not just like this idea of ruining
a demo that was like good it's this idea
of ruining a near decade old memory
right it's got so much back to it it's
it's got so much weight to it
and the moment I got in and sat down and
said okay this is the last song I have
to finish for the album this is I I
saved it for the very very very last I
went through song One finished song two
finished song three finished Etc that's
how I did it except for DJ
goober was that it and uh except for DJ
goer and queen's back those were done
out of order but if you take those out
out I did them one at a time in order of
the track list and the moment I got and
sat down and I was like okay this is the
last song I have to finish for the album
and then the album will be done but it's
the one song I have been the most
terrified to finish in my entire life
nothing has compared to the fear of
like opening this project and
everything's still intact by the way
because I didn't really use a lot of
plugins back then so it was easier to
keep intact versus like the fairy tales
projects are all kind of broken thanks
D16 group
but I I sat down and it was time and
when I actually set my mind to it I
realized I could do it and working on
the demo unlocked this part of my brain
that felt like it was dormant for a
really long
time
um and what's even crazier is in the
process of making it I was like oh my
God I also have access to the original
project for the my past is not dur day
remix which everyone knows who's been
around long enough knows that's one of
my favorite songs I've ever made is that
my past is not today
remix um with stcky day and I still have
the
project so I went into the project and I
grabbed a couple of
instruments from that project and
brought it into this demo and that was
one of the big things that helped me was
like was having not The Melodies of the
my past and not today remics but just
the instruments and I could touch them I
could play them and it instantly
transported me back to 2015 and I could
write something new with it right
because it's an
instrument and I could write something
new with it and
so what ended up happening was after I
put those instruments in I started
playing and my brain took over I don't
know how things happened but that
kickstarted everything hearing those
sounds come from my headphones as I
played the keyboard was the most surreal
thing ever cuz like I remember doing the
same thing with those exact same sounds
when I was
16 and
so I finished the song from its original
state in two
days I was like okay I'm going to
reserve the next three weeks to do this
demo and I finished it in 2
days it it just came it just
like I felt I felt every emotion and
motivation I needed to in that
moment um and so the final song for
girls who are Wizards is like the most
explosive and emotional electronic dance
music song I've ever made I
think um it's it's going to replace
little dreams on the top 20 playlist on
Spotify so that's
cool everyone say goodbye to little
dreams me
personally
um and you know what's even crazier is
you think 2015 is old well guess what I
found and have been recovering the
original projects for Winter's end to
the album Winter's end that I made when
I was 13
I have the project still I have the
seductive Turtle project guys it's
fine I'm a master archist I just have
these
things um I don't know what I'm going to
do with them I don't think anyone wants
seductive Turtle too but you
know I have
them um unfortunately every music
project I had before the age of 12 no
longer exists
unfortunately because that was before I
was like I had my own hard
drives it was all done a on a family
computer
so long story short buy hard
drives many of
them have one hard drive for something
and then have another hard drive to be a
copy of that
something you got to keep this [__]
unlock I currently have one two three
four four active external hard
drives um on my desk right now one of
them is unplugged but I plug it in
whenever I need to do a transfer and
then I in my drawers I have three other
hard drives on standby you got you have
to protect your [__] guys
I don't think there's going to be an
excited Burger excited about Burger
2024 yeah I use other cloud services as
well getting started making music for
fun um literally if you're if you're on
a Mac just pull up garage vanand and
[__] around if you're on
Windows um
H rent to own
bitwig K BG's
great actually yeah if enough people um
had a desire for it we could do like a 7
in single for excited about burger if
any if anyone wanted that for some
reason we could do
that I have the I have the resources to
do that that now yeah if you're own
Windows pirate FL
Studio I don't remember who suggested
this to me I can't take the credit for
this but I was talking to someone about
doing a 7 in vinyl for excited about
burger
and then putting like something lore in
the middle of it like something cryptic
so it's just like excited about Burger
excited about Burger excited about
Burger spooky cryptic song excited about
Burger excited about Burger excited
about burger and someone was like that's
the that's the sandwich that's the
burger itself in song
form I don't remember who told me that
but they're more clever than me
so there's that
a 7in vinyl is just like a vinyl that's
5 Ines smaller than a normal vinyl
record and it just holds less music on
it ableton's not bad on Windows but E
Studio was originally made to be
natively windows so
any I'm going to delete this stuff
here and so for people who are asking
what this sounded like we went from the
Cantina stuff to this
how do I master my mixes here I'm going
to show you my general mastering chain
Let's Pretend This is a finished song
usually what I do is I start
with um as you start with the utility at
the start so I can just bring the volume
down cuz I don't want to do that with
the master
track um and then what I do is I take
the
um all right I run with where are
you it's the trdr slicky
qm and I use this for my uh low
frequency mono maker and then I open the
smart Ops and quick
learn and that helps me just do the
automatic high pass and master low
pass did it do it there we go so it adds
it a high pass and a low Pass based on
the information it sees
because I don't want to do that with my
own ears cuz that's
scary like I don't trust myself so I
have the program do it just the high
pass and low pass then what I'll do is
sometimes I will grab this is
situational sometimes it sounds good
sometimes it doesn't I'll take uh like a
tape machine VST of some
sort and it makes a pretty big world of
difference to me and I'll show you what
I mean
okay so I've added this and I've mostly
gain matched
it um yeah so even if you can't hear the
frequencies that you're cutting your
processors can still hear them so things
like compressors and saturators and eqs
are still going to hear that stuff and
react to it well specifically
compressors
will and um sometimes different speaker
systems will react poorly if there's
information that's really loud past your
the hearable range
so OT on the master that's just what I
did for super Pony world 2016 so yeah
um in this case I think the tape is
doing a lot of good work on the song I'm
going to turn this off and on and when I
turn it off and on I want you to listen
to the differences specifically in the
low base regions this is not the same as
boosting the low end this does a lot of
sat ation and compression that just
makes the low end more present so as I
turn this off and on listen specifically
to the low
end I'll start with that
off yeah and this case it just makes it
sound way Fuller and more impactful and
a little bit warmer as well and it's not
the same as just doing an EQ boost it's
a bunch of different processes happening
all at once it it tames the low end
while also bringing it up and it also
softens the high- end a little bit it's
it's it's actually really nice it's very
subtle though if you don't know how to
hear that it goes a long way in the long
run though because just boosting the low
end will make your compressors overreact
so the way the tape machine does it is
it's a lot more Dynamic and works with
the compression internally so it's
really
nice
um and then what I do is then it becomes
situational what I'm doing in this case
i' take a multiband compressor and I'd
listen in what are we and split this up
into different bands here what I want
the high band to
be around here is fine and I'd probably
just make smash this fast attack fast
release but not a ton of r ratio so it's
just kind of basic
control and then this
one I want this to sound much more open
so slower attack faster
release and reasonable 3 to one
ratio and this definitely needs some
impact as well so again slow attack fast
release
actually medium attack medium releas for
this one and we go hard mode for the
knee and for the low end we need the
most control for this one so we go fast
attack fast release we just kind of
smash that in with hard KN here
and now I'm listening out for Harsh
harmonics that are coming
through I'm going to ignore this
one seeing some pop up here that's aome
for
that change this to linear phase mode
and just a sneaky little boost here just
for fun
and then I like to bring the C2 on since
this is EDM I just like to throw on the
punch one preset with
some uh transparency so mixing it in
with
the right there
that it becomes even more situational
I'm hearing like we could
probably do an EQ shifts with
the
um the p tech trick for fun I'll do this
before the compression here
and then I do two suits one for the
highend one for the low end we could do
the low end before the compressor let's
do that
first
here around
there and then after the compressor we
do the high-end one
just getting rid of those light ones not
too
much now originally what I used to do
after this is I would take a pery 3 and
start adding Dynamic boosts so like
so normally that's what I'd start doing
after all that which might sound
counterintuitive but we put a limiter
and a and a Clipper after it as well but
I don't do it this way anymore what I do
now is we have this new thing called
Bloom and this does it far more
dynamically and I can do it much faster
midside processing so I just set this to
midside split mode and then I listen to
the frequencies I want to hear the most
come out
and then comes the fun part the K
clip this the Clipper we're going to use
this to bring the volume
up so this to Cris mode
I may even consider doing a glue
compressor in parallel the end here
I don't always use a limiter anymore I
use the Clipper instead it's more
transparent typically unless there's
something that in the song the Clipper
doesn't like to hear um I don't us use
limiters as much anymore it just let
lets me have a more transparent mix and
we could by definition use it before
after the
Clipper but I just don't like the how
that sounds
okay so now you'll see the you'll see
this graph have information if the chain
is on I'm going to turn this off and on
so you can hear the difference between
like the general mastered version and
the original version so we'll start with
it off
[Music]
so you can hear how much all those
little changes over time create a much
more energetic and like full sounding
like Master sound I'll do it a few more
times turn off and on so you can hear
the difference but that's what you
should be hearing is that sounds Fuller
more controlled and has more energy
one of the big things is that in the
mastering process you start to get all
the instruments to sound like they're
kind of they're kind of stuck together
like they're kind of dynamic in the same
uh curency whereas without the mastering
process things kind of sound like
they're far distant and Far Away not
quite playing together so that's one of
the things you do in the mastering
process is just trying to get things to
stick together better
so
yeah the process can be different
depending on the song but for something
like this which is not very
difficult
um that's not super loud not super super
difficult that's pretty much all you
need to
do yeah I mean the mastering process
you're also supposed to be doing things
that help like
you hear better on shitty systems too so
that would make sense like the purpose
for
suppressing um unimportant like
screeching harmonics so that they don't
come through on small speakers as much
gives more room for the other
frequencies to breathe and like smaller
speakers to be able to vibrate enough so
you can hear them so a good Master is
supposed to make it more accessible on
every single system you listen
to um a lot of um the music industry
right now is actually moving towards
mastering music specifically for phone
speakers and only phone speakers and I
don't like I don't like that so if
you're hearing music on the radio that
sounds really Bassy for no reason like
things that are shouldn't normally be
Bassy or super Bassy it's because
they're they're mastering it for phone
speakers and I don't like I don't like
that this would sound fine on phone
speakers and it's not needlessly Bassy
um well that's how you would the this
master is also easier because I'm only
working with this a good Master is
supposed to have everything contextually
in the song and so I would be doing
automation to like have the processing
happen less or more in different parts
of the song so that's something else I
do but there's not there's nowhere to do
that here because there's it's just like
a an eight bar Loop times two is Bloom
worth the
price um if you're an experienced
engineer question mark probably not
um and for the most part I'm kind of an
experienced engineer I'm not like a
studio person right but I have
experience I know how to EQ things I
know how to mix and master things but I
like Bloom because it takes a little bit
of guesswork out of the whole
process it's cuz like I wanted to be a
little bit a little bit like brighter
but I don't want to like spend too much
time making it brighter so if you could
just do that a little bit without
messing up my song then I'm going to do
that instead because it's just it's
faster and less destructive to
me what site do you recommends for
making music um what you mean like a
site for software or a site for
resources a good a good song Master
should sound good
arguably on
most on most headphones
also it's important to remember it that
your thing your
song uh sounds good in mono for a
variety of reasons so for those of you
who are listening to a mono on on a mono
system right now I'm about to set it to
100% um stereo
sides and so if you don't hear anything
thing then you're listening in mono you
ready if you heard the sounds that I
just played you were listening in Stereo
if you didn't hear the sounds I just
played you're listening in
mono how many of you didn't hear it I'm
curious
okay well if you didn't hear it then
you're listening in mono if you did hear
it congratulations you're listening in
true stereo right now but um that's why
it's important your song sounds good in
mono is because clearly from the chat
not everyone's using um a stereo mix
headphones or anything that happens
sometimes if you're using if you're
sometimes if you're on a Discord call on
your phone it Hogs the sound card so you
can only listen to Mono anything else um
sometimes if you're using a mobile
speaker that can only be in mono or
sometimes your headphones might just be
set to Mono for no reason software side
or Hardware side it just depends
so now for everyone who's listening to
stereo I'm going to switch to Mono and
you can hear what it sounds like in mono
compared to
[Music]
stereo so that's the mono version that's
the mono version of the song um if
you're listening if you were one of the
ones who didn't hear the previous one
you're not going to hear the difference
because you've been listening to Mono
the whole time for everyone else who's
listening in Stereo you're now being
able to hear an in mono cuz I've said it
to that
um and uh when you're making music that
sounds super wide you want to make sure
it's everything's working in the monox
cuz sometimes things can go wrong I'll
give an example of that in just a second
um
but I wanted to demonstrate something
really
quickly so we're ask in chat is I
thought mono was just two channels or it
was the sum of both
channels and I'm going to show you the
difference of what's going on a diagram
might
help I I'm I'm about to dra I'm about to
draw a diagram for you of mono and
stereo if only aity photo would open
everyone clap for Affinity photo you got
this
excellent
excellent so mono if you can imagine
sound as circles for a moment if you
will when you're hearing a full stereo
signal it's going to be
like Left Channel right
Channel and then mono channel
right this is not an an exact diagram
but hopefully it illustrates better
what's happening so left
right and mid
mono um when you're listening in Stereo
you're listening to all of this when
you're listening in mono you're only
hearing this the this stuff right
here and this area the left and right
the side channels is where all the width
and size comes from in the audio and
it's possible to only hear that or only
hear
that um mono isn't the sum of the side
channels it's the
difference and the side channels are
everything that's left
over and so if you're listening to a
mono on a mono system this stuff just
disappears all the all the side
information disappears and you're only
hearing the mono so for those of you who
didn't hear the Audio I was playing at
that one point that's because you could
only hear the mono and I I muted the
mono channel so all that was playing was
the side channels which is why you
didn't hear
anything if that makes sense so have any
of you ever like stuck your headphones
partway in but not fully into like a
sound system and suddenly it sounded
like you can only hear the instrumental
of a
song like oh my God how did I just take
the vocals out of the song have you ever
experienced that before
the reason why that happens is because
there's a bunch of different rings on
the headphone jack and each one
represents one of these
channels and so when you only put it in
halfway you're going to single out one
of these and often times it it kind of
depends on how far you've done it so it
feels like holy [__] I figured out how
to take the vocals out of a song no what
you've done is vocals are usually always
going to be mono there's almost never
going to be stereo information for
vocals unless there's Reverb or
something so when you stuck that thing
in and it's only halfway you're hearing
just the side channels the vocals aren't
present because the vocals are usually
mixed into the mono
only which is why that happens
so again for those of you who are
listening in
Stereo I was just using a switch to flip
between stereo and mono but I actually
also have a slider check this
out so this is a little bit hard to see
I apolog actually I might have a killer
Hearts thing shout out killer Hearts all
their plugins are free Google them I
mean most of the plugins are
free um
okay here we go I could make this really
big check this
out for everyone listening in Stereo
watch what happens when I change this
WID
knob see how the width goes away oh all
of a
sudden the side channels are gone
because we're turning this down and now
we can do the inverse let's take away
just the mono
stuff and you're asking what happens at
200% so for the width knob and this is
the case for most stereo tools if you
turn it up past 100% it just increases
the volume of the side channels only
watch now you can't just take something
like this and make a mono sound stereo
by turning up the width knob there has
to be stereo information first for this
with knob to even do anything so that's
important to note
um but yeah that's how that works and
also panning well check this
out you can uh choose what percentage of
the channel
is UM playing
sounds how how loud it is on each side
so that's
fun um anyway long story short
um when you're making music as an
engineer if you're a beginner to music
you do not need to think about this
stuff please do not think about this
stuff don't worry about it right now but
if you're a more experienced musician
and you're going to start getting
serious with stuff you should always
make sure your song sounds good when
it's set to Mono because most people are
not going to listen in mono but
sometimes it's inevitable in fact like
when you're um at a live event a lot of
the times they're actually playing audio
in mono cuz some stereo [__] can
happen with noise cancellation and stuff
even with the best speaker systems that
try to nullify that as much as possible
um a lot of the times they're just going
to be playing stuff in mono even fullon
bands and DJs will have their stuff
output in mono in fact my performance in
2017 at BronyCon was in
mono so um I don't remember why I think
it was just a limitation with their
system or my system but that's just how
it happened and another example is for
babscon online
2020 when I played um I accidentally
streamed in mono I wasn't intending to I
just accidentally streamed in
mono that's there it's a it's hard to
explain how that happened but it
happened um and so for situations where
there are accidents or there's
Necessities or people just don't have
the cap ability to listen in Stereo you
need to make sure your song sounds good
when there's no side information when
it's just the mono
Channel which might sound like yeah of
course um that's that should be simple
enough but you have to remember that
things tend to cancel each other out and
phase all
weirdly and I think it's time to
demonstrate the hos effect everyone in
chat who knows about the hos effect
start cheering it's time to talk about
the hos effect for everyone who doesn't
know about the hos effect I'm about to
blow your mind I think
so if you are listening in Stereo this
may blow your mind a little
bit so I have the saw wave it's in mono
the saw wave is in mono in my brain I'm
like huh I want to make this sound wider
you know bigger in the stereo Spectrum
well a rudimentary thought what if I
took this sound and duplicated it and
delayed one
on one side and made it normal on the
other side so I'll explain what I mean
let's take the delay here let's change
the feedback to
that okay
so I have so what a delay does is it's
an echo essentially
[Music]
but what if I could do that on a channel
basis right so now they're at 1
millisecond so essentially
instantaneous but what if I then took
one channel of this
delay and offset it by a little
[Music]
bit for those of you think in Stereo you
might be thinking oh my god wow it's so
wide sounding
[Music]
now everyone listening in mono right now
is freaking out cuz it sounds terrible
um so if you're listening in Stereo this
sounds kind of
cool it's like I took a mono sound and
made it Stereo by just doing this delay
thing but so so we know it sounds good
in Stereo I I feel like that's an
interesting effect in Stereo but
remember that slider I had for the
width well for everyone who's listening
in mono why don't we listen in to what
they can hear when I play the sound are
you ready
o ow what the
[__] that doesn't sound right does
it why why is that happening it sounds
great when it's in full
width but when when it's in mono it's
like sounds disgusting that's disgusting
why does it sound like
[Music]
that well that's because that's the H
effect um
the left and right channels if you can
imagine them in
time actually I just demonstrate this
through a
sound so let's just take this Kick
Drum I'm going to duplicate this track
so there's two of the exact same Kick
Drum playing at the same
time I'm going to take one track and pan
it all the way to the
left and take the other track and pan
all the way to the right when I play
them
together they just add up to be the
normal sound if I take the one that's
playing only on the right and move it
just by a little
bit oh wow it's in Stereo we we turn
this Kick Drum into stereo but again if
we group these together there and use
that WID
knob oh no suddenly the kick drum is
weak it's all pitchy and weird and it
gets even worse when you do
this it's like what the [__] now the
base is gone the the B the kick jum
doesn't have any base
anymore all because of that so we've
discussed this on stream before but what
happens is there's interference in the
frequencies
let's go ahead and put these kick drums
to play at the exact same time
again so you can see a nice full wave
form when they're playing at the exact
same time but as soon as we offset
these there's some weird dips going on
in the
frequencies and now you can see the base
is
gone and what's happening happening
is different parts of the sound are
canceling each other
out and different parts of the sound are
strengthening each
other and so long story short even if
you're not doing something that
extreme to your sounds in your in your
music it might be happening on a small
level if you're using things like Reverb
and chorus and different delays and
[Music]
stuff so that's why when you're making
music you usually want to go in here and
click the mono button just just make
sure it sounds good in mono
[Music]
and in this case with the song we've
made
um the song does not fall apart when I
switch it to Mono it still sounds
legible you can still understand what's
going on
so
um yeah that's that's the reason why you
want
to why you want to like listen to your
song In Mono sometimes just double check
to make sure everything sounds correct
especially if you do something with
crazy time warping effects like if you
add a bunch of Reverb you'll be like
okay I want to make sure this sounds
good in mono that the mono version
doesn't completely fall
apart and then the next thing to do is
to know how to fix problems as they come
up now the reason why I didn't have to
fix anything is because by default
whenever I'm making music I usually know
exactly how something's going to sound
in mono for the most part the only time
it becomes unpredictable is if it's like
a a growl like a DubStep growl
um that I'm really frequently checking
because when you're doing growls that
there's a lot of like phase interference
and
stuff but by default I'm I usually
already know how to avoid things that
cause problems in Stereo which might be
an unfair skill to have but because I
don't have to check as much as most
people but in general what does a growl
sound like a mono I can show you what
can happen if your
growl is
not if you have a really intense growl
and it doesn't sound good in mono let's
see one of the most common grow was just
something really simple we go to
spectral do
this this is like the simplest growl I
can do just as fast as
possible uh let's do yeah
and
then just a very simple bread and
butter Ben plus minus
grow this is a simple as they come
guys now some things that people like to
do is they like to take these these wave
tables and then add Unison to
them to make them lighter of
course and then do the whole random Dune
thing
down this is a very common Rhythm growl
of stuff like this
and this sounds incredible in Stereo you
cannot tell me that doesn't sound sick
as hell but the moment you take the
utility and you say make it
mono when now all you hear are those
like really hissy High harmonic stuff
and that kind of makes the growl purpose
purposeless so you have to find the
right
balance you can still have
crazy pitch warping here
but that sounds acceptable enough in
mono in my
opinion and then you can add some hyper
Dimensions see how that sounds in mono
it's fine in mono it sounds okay not the
best but
okay oh what the
[__] that's kind of cool sounding
a
anyway long story short if you're going
to work on music and you want to get
serious about it make sure to be
checking your mixes in mono to make sure
they don't completely fall
apart but um I got to go to bed very
soon so the leave off someone would
everyone seems to be liking the growls
so I'll show you one of my favorite
growls that I've made and how I use
it um it's in here what did I call it I
think I just called it the
CU was it just called scrilly I think
it's called
scrilly so here's a grow I made that's I
haven't used in a song yet here's the
processing pain for it and the
[Music]
[Applause]
modulation I just I just love this C so
much so part of the way I've achieved
the sound is we have this morphe here
it's doing this
[Applause]
[Music]
shape oh it's so good it's so good um
and then using some frequency dispersion
the eq3 what is this doing it's just
doing a big fat
WP and then I have amicide here secret
weapon big saturation distortion
[Music]
here's what happens when you play a
growl in the subharmonics that does
this yeah guys like someone said in chat
this is
free right now just type uh homicide o h
m i c i d e and they've made it
free and it's a big secret weapon
Distortion plugin it's it's free there's
there's no reason to not get
it here's what it would sound like if we
added that Unison trick
I know it's also hard to see but over on
the left hand side here I'm using a
pitch Bend and a mod wheel to get this
to happen if I just press a
note you don't get much because all the
movement's happening with this mod wheel
which you can see being moved around
down here
[Applause]
unfortunately I could listen to this
forever I I could just listen to the
same sound forever I'm serious
I of curiosity I'm curious what it
sounds like with the really like sharp
flanger from shaver box here
so my process for making like Basse
drops is I'll make instruments like this
and then basically what I'll do is I'll
just set up a parallel track hit
resample and just make sounds like that
oh that last one was delicious listen to
that
one it's CU that really
pronounce like vowel
sound oh that's
great and then what I'll do is I'll of
course like just take something
just some basic
w d
so that's kind of like my process for
making a drop is I'll I'll make more
than just one patch and I'll just kind
of like make a bunch of sounds like I
have literally um some of the songs on
girls who are Wizards it will be like a
15sec drop or something but I will have
made like 45 minutes of growls just to
make that one 15c section it's insane
cuz um how big is my hard
drive 2 4
six right now my hard drives on my desk
combined are 18 terabytes so that's
fun um hold up so
before I go to
bed as you know I did the whole Canon
catalog update last
year and as a result I actually have
folders for every single thing I've ever
done and
released and it just has all the master
files like here's excited about Burger
has that thing has that thing if you
want to go see the Paradise Valley
one it has all the tracks as they were
mixed for the the
album has the booklet stuff all the
booklet projects I
made has the the main artwork all
organized it has artwork that wasn't the
main artwork that was still part of the
project and so when you know that that's
how this things work in this system now
now I should tell you that girls for
wizards is 20 GB in size just the master
folder of all the finished files is 20
Gigabytes
so um yeah that's
fun so 20 Gigabytes for girls for
wizards because it's it's a it's a been
a beefy
project and this is not including the
Ableton projects those are somewhere
else but um yeah anyway this is my
process for making a
drop just with maybe like five or six
patches in total and 20 to 30 to 40
minutes of recordings each
patch like I can show you one of those
right now I can show you one of those
recordings this folder right here is my
growls folder these are all growls
so what's what's what's the Donk
method sounds like this
you can hear I'm just like adding more
ideas to it like changing different
parameters inside and adding more
effects as I go
on and this file is actually one of the
shorter ones it's 7 minutes and 30
seconds how about this one how long is
this one okay now this one
is only only 10 minutes
the vowels got a little silly at the end
there what the [__] is pizza power alien
let's find out this doesn't look like a
growl
but I put it in the growl folder
probably because I was intending to use
it as
[Music]
one can I be honest I don't remember how
I made this and I'm really scared cuz I
don't remember making it
oh that's why it's in the growl folder
it's because of stuff like
this that's so cool uh what is this
one why is it called metaverse hyper
chroma why did I name it that
how I say that's a pitch map thing
here's the original
grow oh this is like old school dub
up oh what
that is a tasty tasty thing right there
hold up just like put that into a
sampler and you can just get this hi I'd
like to put you in a sampler let me do
that hi I'd like to put you in a sampler
are you
ready thank
you just throw on classic
Ott maybe make this
uh what am I doing mono we want to make
this
mono kind of a sick sound if I do say so
myself
um anything else I want to look at
before I get out what is trash three oh
this is when trash three came out and
made this
grow
what I like this
uhoh uh
oh did I
hear5 beats per
minute now I heard
195 e
sorry whoever just heard that that's
the I just been collecting sounds that I
know this is from The Martin Garrick
right this is from Zed skrc scary
monsters remix this
is big room house this is from a bunch
of different things underscores use the
sound in uh skin purifying treatment
which is
great there's the brain
crash stab which was just in this
vengeance pack for some reason
[Music]
this one's from Savant uh space
Wolf it says dead mouse ghost and stuff
dead mouse ghost and stuff
again that's the
uh you know you know the
one so there's that one
okay Now's the
Time Now's the
Time thanks for we we held um 100
viewers starting at 2 in the morning all
the way to 5: in the morning for
me so that's kind of
crazy um thank you for coming I'm going
to bed um I probably will not stream for
a bit cuz it's about to have the
Heatwave and I'm just going to feel like
[__] through the Heat wve and we don't
want me to feel like [__] while I'm
streaming so
um everyone girls for wizards in
literally a
week girl s Wizards in a
week I'm very
excited everything's ready oh and we
have a booklet I wasn't planning on
doing a booklet but then today I was was
like I'm going to make a booklet so I
made a
booklet um so we have a booklet and uh
if girls who Wizards is received well we
will do a CD release of that and I think
it will be the first CD release with a
full printed booklet that's why I made
the booklet today so we can we can have
a printed one If Everyone likes the
album
so thanks for coming that's poo yay
[Music]